README.md, before:

#envayasms

RapidSMS Backend for EnvayaSMS Android App

Installation
============

Check out http://rapidsms.readthedocs.org/en/latest/main/installation.html for how to install RapidSMS.

Then, in your project directory:

```
$ git clone git://github.com/dimagi/rapidsms-envaya.git
```

In settings.py:

Add `"envayasms"` to the list `INSTALLED_APPS`.

Add the following to `INSTALLED_BACKENDS`:

```
    'envayasms': {
        "ENGINE": "envayasms.backend.EnvayaSMSBackend",
    }
```

Run the following again to set up the database:

```
$ python manage.py syncdb
```

Finally, set up EnvayaSMS on an Android phone. See http://sms.envaya.org/install/ for how to install EnvayaSMS on a real phone, or http://sms.envaya.org/test/ for how to test on your local machine. EnvayaSMS has some great documentation on how to further set up EnvayaSMS.

Once you have EnvayaSMS running, set URL to point to the machine running RapidSMS, matching exactly the URL set above. Do the same with the password, if it is set in RapidSMS. (The password feature won't work unless you set the URL correctly.)

And now enjoy sending SMSes through EnvayaSMS!

Commit message:

Added info in README about how the whole app works.

README.md, after:

#envayasms

RapidSMS Backend for EnvayaSMS Android App

Installation
============

Check out http://rapidsms.readthedocs.org/en/latest/main/installation.html for how to install RapidSMS.

Then, in your project directory:

```
$ git clone git://github.com/dimagi/rapidsms-envaya.git
```

In settings.py:

Add `"envayasms"` to the list `INSTALLED_APPS`.

Add the following to `INSTALLED_BACKENDS`:

```
    'envayasms': {
        "ENGINE": "envayasms.backend.EnvayaSMSBackend",
    }
```

Run the following again to set up the database:

```
$ python manage.py syncdb
```

Finally, set up EnvayaSMS on an Android phone. See http://sms.envaya.org/install/ for how to install EnvayaSMS on a real phone, or http://sms.envaya.org/test/ for how to test on your local machine. EnvayaSMS has some great documentation on how to further set up EnvayaSMS.

Once you have EnvayaSMS running, set URL to point to the machine running RapidSMS, matching exactly the URL set above. 

And now enjoy sending SMSes through EnvayaSMS!

How does it work?
=================

There are 3 players in the whole scene:

1. EnvayaSMS Django app for RapidSMS (this application!)
1. Your RapidSMS app (which also includes RapidSMS itself)
1. EnvayaSMS Android app (which runs on the phone)

####Outgoing message cycle

The outgoing message cycle works as follows:

    1. Message is received by the `send` method of the EnvayaSMSBackend from `backend.py`
    1. The message is then queued inside the database to be sent.
    1. When an EnvayaSMS Android app running on a phone polls for messages using the 'outgoing' action, message are sent to the phone, to be actually delivered.
    1. When a message is sent by the phone, the Android app updates (in the next polling) informs about it's status to the EnvayaSMS app.
    1. The EnvayaSMS app updates the status of the message in the database, accordingly.


####Incoming message cycle

The incoming message cycle works as follows:

    1. Message is received by the EnvayaSMS Android app.
    1. The message is then forwarded to the EnvayaSMS Django app at the URL configured in the Android app, which is actually a view implementation of EnvayaSMSBackendView (and a form behind it) from `views.py`
    1. The EnvayaSMS Django app validates it and sends it to the router for further processing.
